In Unit 7 of this course
you will be exploring the wide variety
of tools that are available
to help people publish content on the web.
Throughout this course, you have learned
to create websites by writing code,
including HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
Being able to understand websites at a
code level is a valuable skill for anyone,
but is especially essential if you might be doing
web design or development as part of your future career.
Virtually every organization
uses the web to do its work
so knowledge of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript
are highly desirable and
marketable skills for many jobs.
Although it's important to understand
the code behind the scenes, let's face it.
Developing all your web pages by hand
can be pretty time consuming.
This is why there are a variety
of web authoring tools available,
such as Kompozer and Adobe Dreamweaver.
Web authoring tools allow you to create a web page
using a familiar, easy-to-use interface,
much like a word processing program.
Just type in your text,
select a few options from the menu or toolbar,
and all of the code gets written for you
on the back-end.
Most web authoring tools these days
create valid, standards-compliant code,
but you might still want to do some editing
to the code the tool generates
and most tools provide you with the ability
to switch back and forth between a visual design view...
Code view...
or a split view where you can work
with both views simultaneously.
All of the features of web pages
that you've been learning to code by hand
can be done through menus, buttons,
and dialog boxes with these tools.
You can also get that perfect look and feel
by selecting different options from a dialog box,
rather than typing in CSS code from scratch.
These tools also provide a rich variety of
other features for managing websites,
including automatically uploading
changes to your site
as well as letting you view
the relationships between pages.
Also, there are a growing number
of tools available on-line
that enable novice users to create websites
simply by selecting a template
and entering their content
into web-based form fields.
This includes content management systems
such as Drupal, Joomla, and WordPress...
Blogging software such as Movable Type and Blogger...
Wiki software such as MediaWiki,
the software behind Wikipedia…
And other website publishing tools such as
Google Sites and Yahoo! SiteBuilder.
This unit will give you an opportunity to
explore each of these tools and services,
and to consider their implications
for careers in web design and development.
What are the implications?
With all of these tools available
to help people and organizations
to create and manage websites
without knowing anything about HTML...
does that mean everything you've learned
in this course has been a waste of time?
Not at all!
Each of the tools and services described in this lesson
ultimately delivers content to the browser
in HTML, stylized with CSS,
with behavior added using JavaScript.
As long as there's a World Wide Web, these
technologies will likely be at the heart of that Web,
and there will always be a demand
for people who understand these technologies.